# Week 14

## P17

> Recall that with the CSMA/CD protocol, the adapter waits K # 512 bit times  after a collision, where K is drawn randomly. For K = 100, how long does  the adapter wait until returning to Step 2 for a 100 Mbps broadcast channel?  For a 1 Gbps broadcast channel？

for 100Mbps wait times = 51200/100000000 = 512us

for 1Gps wait times = 51200/1000000000 = 51.2 us

Suppose nodes A and B are on the same 10 Mbps broadcast channel, and the propagation delay between the two nodes is 325 bit times. Suppose CSMA/CD and Ethernet packets are used for this broadcast channel. Suppose node A begins transmitting a frame and, before it finishes, node B begins transmitting a frame. Can A finish transmitting before it detects that B has transmitted? Why or why not? If the answer is yes, then A incorrectly believes that its frame was successfully transmitted without a collision. Hint: Suppose at time t = 0 bits, A begins transmitting a frame. In the worst case, A transmits a minimum- ized frame of 512 + 64 bit times. So A would finish transmitting the frame at t = 512 + 64 bit times. Thus, the answer is no, if B’s signal reaches A before bit time t = 512 + 64 bits. In the worst case, when does B’s signal reach A?

## P19

> Suppose nodes A and B are on the same 10 Mbps broadcast channel, and the  propagation delay between the two nodes is 245 bit times. Suppose A and  B send Ethernet frames at the same time, the frames collide, and then A and  B choose different values of K in the CSMA/CD algorithm. Assuming no  other nodes are active, can the retransmissions from A and B collide? For our  purposes, it suffices to work out the following example. Suppose A and B  begin transmission at t = 0 bit times. They both detect collisions at t = 245 t bit times. Suppose KA = 0 and KB = 1. At what time does B schedule its  retransmission? At what time does A begin transmission? (Note: The nodes  must wait for an idle channel after returning to Step 2—see protocol.) At  what time does A’s signal reach B? Does B refrain from transmitting at its  scheduled time?

| Time | Event                                                        |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 0    | A and B begin transmission                                   |
| 245  | A and B detect collision                                     |
| 293  | A and B finish transmitting jam signal                       |
| 538  | B's last bit arrives at A; A detects an idle channel ;A starts transmitting |
| 634  | B returns to Step2                                           |
| 805  | B must sense idle channel for 96 bit times before it transmits |
| 879  | A's transmission reaches B                                   |

